# Word-Level Augmentation of Formal Proof by Learning from Simulation Traces

Zhiyuan Yan, Hongce Zhang. International Conference on Computer-Aided Design

## Abstract

Formal verification has been widely adopted to check logic correctness. One of the challenges in formal  verification is how to quickly reach a formal proof for a user-specified property. This is especially difficult when the property involves word-level reasoning. In this work, we propose to augment the target property with additional conjectures automatically learned from simulation traces. The conjectures are generated by a reinforcement learning model, which dynamically expands production rules according to observations from simulation. Experiments show that our property strengthening method achieves notable speed-up on multiple verification tasks, including sequential equivalence checking and word-level property checking.

## Setup

Please create a conda environment:

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate DreamMiner
```

Please download Boolector from `https://github.com/Boolector/boolector` and extract it into a folder named 'boolector' in the project root directory.

Please ensure you install the cosa2 with the branch *assertion_mining* and extract it into a folder named 'cosa2' in the project root directory. Here is the link: `https://github.com/zhanghongce/cosa2/tree/assertion_mining`

## Experiment

Running for the assertion mining process:

```
bash run_mining.sh example_case/15.c.sl example_case/15.c.sl/verilog/test.txt
```

Here, the 15.c.sl is the folder that collect the target test case. test.txt collect the simulation traces.

If you need to integrate our generated assertions into to speed up the model checking process, please run the following example:

```
python3 run_all_case.py -data_path simple_arithmetic_cases -logging logging.txt
```

Here , the simple_arithmetic_cases contains several test cases in our  benchmark, and the logging.txt will collect our experimental result

## Citation

If our work could help your project, please cite our work:

```
@inproceedings{Zhiyuan2024ICCAD,
  title={Word-Level Augmentation of Formal Proof by Learning from Simulation Traces},
  author={Yan, Zhiyuan and Zhang, Hongce},
  booktitle={Proceedings of 2024 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Computer-Aided Design (ICCAD)},
  pages={1--9},
  year={2024},
  organization={ACM}
}
```
